In this lesson we will learn how to create gradient backgrounds in graphic design.
We typically think of a gradient as a gradual or smooth transition between two colors.
So let's hop over to an example and give ourselves a goal.
Here is an example page.
And let's imagine that we want the sidebar which is currently light green to instead use a gradient
background.
And let's pretend that we want the top of the sidebar to start out as this light green color and we
want it to transition vertically so that the bottom of the sidebar uses a white background color.
So we've identified our goal.
Now let's hop over to the text editor we are viewing the CSSA file.
Here is the rule for the sidebar we can see that it's currently receiving a solid background color.
Now instead of a solid color we want to use a gradient so I'm going to delete this line.
But first I'm going to copy this hexadecimal color code to my clipboard so I can paste it in just a
moment.
So with that line out of the way let's write the code to create a gradient as far as the web browser
is concerned.
Gradients are background images so we use the background image property only unlike last lesson where
we pointed towards graphic files to create a gradient.
We just need a bit of code.
So modern web browsers can leverage the linear gradient function and we can pass several values.
So first we specify which direction we want the gradient to flow.
So I will say to the bottom to bottom comma we then specify what color we want to begin with.
So I will paste in the hexadecimal color code for that green value comma and then we specify what color
we want to fade to.
So all input white.
So if I save and refresh in the browser.
Now because we didn't have to create an actual graphic image file to create this gradient effect it
means we can change the appearance of this gradient with just a few characters.
So if we wanted the colors to flow from the left to the right and center from the top to the bottom
we could say to the right to right or if we wanted the gradient to flow from the top left to the bottom
right we could say to bottom right and we then have a diagonal gradient.
But I'm going to switch this back to simply to bottom because I think that looks best.
Now this lesson would be complete if the entire world used the most updated web browsers available.
But that's not the world we live in.
So if someone visits our Web site and they're using an outdated web browser that does not support CSSA
gradients at the very least we want the sidebar to have a solid green background.
So in our code directly above our gradient line we can provide fallback code for older browsers background
color and we'll paste in that standard green color.
So at the very least even if someone comes to our page using a very old browser they will see this.
We can leave this line of code in as well so if they're using a new browser they will see this.
Now we could stop here but let's go the extra mile.
So if someone's using a brand new web browser this code will work just fine.
If they're using an incredibly outdated browser this will be the fallback.
What if someone uses a web browser that's just a tiny bit outdated.
Well that's where things get messy and that's where you no longer need to worry about remembering this
syntax.
And we as developers resort to desperate spaghetti tangle of code that I'm going to paste in.
So I don't bore both of us to death by typing it in.
So again do not worry about memorizing any of the highlighted lines but I will review them very quickly
.
So this is the very outdated Web Kit way of creating ingredients.
This is the slightly outdated Web Kit way of creating gradients.
This is the outdated Mozilla way.
This is the outdated Microsoft way this is the outdated off-Broadway and obviously this last line is
the line that we created together.
So this is the modern non-browser specific correct way to create a gradient.
Now again don't worry about memorizing these lines.
This is something that you can copy and paste and modify for your own projects but with all of this
code in place we now have a gradient effect that will work in almost every browser and device under
the sun.
And worst case scenario even if someone's browser doesn't support gradients they were at the very least
see the solid green background color that we provided as a fallback.
That's going to bring this lesson to a close.
I encourage you to experiment with gradient backgrounds in your own designs.
Have fun and I will see you in the next lesson.